Case study: Yara (#40)
bridge-design/website: pages/case-studies/yara/index.mdx

---
title: Yara International Design System
date: 2024-01-19
layout: LayoutCase
team: [varya, irina, andriy, alexandra]
logo: /logo/yara-logo.svg
description: >

>     Refining Yara design system: in this project, we enreached a React library with 10 new components,
>     upgraded to Storybook@7, improved accessibility, and restructured tokens. Key efforts included
>     infrastructure optimization, thorough documentation overhaul, and customizing the Storybook UI based
>     on user feedback.

Reviewer: Refining Yara design system: in this project, we enriched a React library with over 10 new components and refactored many outdated ones. We also conducted accessibility audit, devveloped new token  structure and migrated dewsign syste documentation to Storybook@7.
```suggestion
        Refining Yara design system: in this project, we enriched a React library with more than 10 new components and refactored many others. We also conducted an accessibility audit, devveloped new tokens structure and migrated design system documentation to Storybook@7. Key efforts included infrastructure optimization, thorough documentation overhaul, and customizing the Storybook UI based on user feedback.
```

seo:
  desc: >
    Detailed case study on Yara International's React library refurbishment. Learn how our team expertly
    refactored and enhanced design systems, integrating new components, upgrading to Storybook@7,
    and improving accessibility and infrastructure. Our project demonstrates excellence in documentation,
    UI customization, and efficient design system development.
    
---

Our recent project with Yara International stands as a testament to our team's ability to deliver
high-quality development solutions in the realm of design systems. Over a period of four months,
we undertook the challenging task of refactoring and maintaining the React library of Yara International's
design system. This project not only involved creating new components, refactoring the existing ones, and
brushing up on documentation but also enhancing the existing React Native library, showcasing our
team's versatility and expertise in handling complex technical tasks.

Our team was:
 
- **Varya Stepanova**: Design System Architect and Lead Developer
- **Irina Samoylova**: Senior UI Engineer
- **Andriy Kotko**: UI Engineer
- **Alexandra Urberg**: UI Engineer

## Adding New Components

> The enhancement of Yara's library was marked by the addition of 10 new components, including complex ones like `Calendar`. This expansion enriched the library's versatility, catering to more diverse design needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The enhancement of Yara's library was marked by the addition of 10 new components, including:
- Calendar
- Accordion
- SelectGroup
- NavigationRail
...and many more.

This expansion enriched the library's versatility, catering to more diverse design needs.
```

## Improving Accessibility

Accessibility enhancements were a critical part of our work. We not only improved the components' accessibility but also integrated a11y tests into the library, reinforcing our commitment to inclusive design.

## New Tokens Structure

We conducted an audit of the token structure at both the design and code levels, proposing a new, more intuitive structure. This reorganization accommodated the intricacies of over 50 components, making the system more user-friendly.

## Infrastructure Improvements

Our team executed crucial fixes to the library's infrastructure, optimizing testing and deployment processes. The introduction of Chromatic previews for each pull request was a strategic move to streamline design reviews within the development workflow.

## Refactoring Documentation

Comprehensive documentation refurbishment was undertaken. This involved not only updating the component documentation but also addressing technical issues within the components and outlining workflow processes.

## Customizing the Storybook UI

> Responding to the results of Yara's user research, we customized the Storybook UI. This customization included a revamped layout for component pages and improved representation of component examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Responding to the results of Yara's user research, we created a fully customized Storybook UI based on custom theme and tailormade reusable Storybook components. This customization included a revamped layout for component pages and improved representation of component examples.
A a result, the documentation website not only aligned with the brand style, but also had a significant UX improvements, allowing product teams to find necessary information or usage example faster.
```
